[MUSIC]
Welcome back.
In this video, we're going to look at
the role Python plays in data science and
analytics.
Python is an open source, general purpose
programming language that can be used for
everything from building
web applications and
enterprise programs to performing
analysis on large amounts of data.
Python is popular because it
is freely available to use,
emphasizes code readability, and
it is easy for newcomers to learn.
Also, it is popular because
of its user friendliness and
the ability to integrate with a variety
of programs, tools and websites.
Python has become one of the most popular
languages for data management and
analysis.
Today, Python is widely
used by startups and
tech companies to embed analytics
into their products, and
by data scientists to quickly manage and
analyze large amounts of data.
Python has a set of tools called
the Python Data Analytics Stack
that address every step of
the analytics workflow.
These tools are assembled
into Python libraries,
which are collections of
code that are easy to use.
While the names of these
specific libraries may change,
here's a few examples of common
libraries for data science.
Pandas for importing and assessing
data including outline analysis, and
data cleansing,
as well as summary statistics.
NumPY and SciPy for
performing extremely fast matrix,
mathematical and scientific operations.
Statsmodels for fitting a wide range
of statistical models to the data.
Scikit-Learn from applying machine
learning techniques like, clustering,
dimensionality reduction,
random forests and logistic regression.
Matplotlib, Seaborn and Bokeh for
producing attractive visuals.
And finally, Apache Spark, for
processing data on a massive scale
across a cluster of computers.
In addition to normal data science and
numeric data,
Python has libraries that can also handle
unstructured data like text and images.
For example, NLTK, Spacy, and
Gensim process text data.
OpenCV manipulates and analyzes images.
BeautifulSoup and Scrapy make
web scraping easy and intuitive.
Python can interact with tools like
Caffe to use deep learning techniques
on powerful GPU enabled machines for
cutting edge machine learning on images,
sound, and text.
And Flask or Django for building websites
and web services that can embed machine
learning models that can be
accessed through the Internet.
We've outlined some of
the capabilities of Python, but
the big question is, why Python?
Well, our boasts more extensive, advanced,
statistical model and capabilities.
Where Python really shines is
when the data is unstructured or
analytics need to be embedded in
other programs or applications.
Because Python is a general purpose
programming language, it was easy for
the community to build extremely efficient
libraries to process all kinds of data,
and interact with many of the leading big
data tools like Hadoop or Apache Spark.
Here at PWC, we rely on Python extensively
for many of our demonstration projects.
We evaluate which leading data tool
to use based on the client's need.
I'll highlight a couple of
examples where Python was used.
First, there are projects that
use natural language processing.
For example, you've heard describe our
work to help a major banking client
understand the feedback it was getting
from it's customers through customer
support channels, as well as social media.
We use Python to scrape the data,
parse and understand it, and
then describe the customer's sentiment
present in it to better priorities
the issues the bank needed to address
to improve customer satisfaction.
Ultimately, the client was able
to better mean customers need and
increase customer engagement.
On another recent project with an oil and
gas client who had a massive amount of
census on pumps and oil wells, almost 1
billion records, we used Python as well.
The goal was to create a machine learning
model to predict when any given pump
might fail given its sensor readings.
We used Python and Apache Spark to
efficiently process the data in parallel
so we could do all of
our data cleaning and
feature engineering before finally
fitting a variety of models to it.
This was a good example of why Python
was chosen, not only because it let us
process all high volume data, but
also because the client used Python and
wanted deployable code that could be
kept after the engagement was completed.
Ultimately, we were able to provide them
with models to predict pump failures
two days in advance of an actual failure.
Enough time for
them to perform maintenance and
save on costly pump replacements.
Sometimes the choice of the appropriate
analysis tool can seem daunting
as there are so many options.
Python is a great choice because it
handles many of the data science use
cases, from simple descriptive statistic,s
to statistical models, to complex
machine learning and distributed computing
embedded in dynamic web applications.
Python is easy to use because it was
designed to be easy for programmers so
that the learning curve is not too steep.
If you haven't tried it yet,
it's worth exploring.
In this video, we've discussed the role
of Python in data and analytics.
Python is free, easy to use,
fast, and useful for
both simple and
complex data analysis tasks.
[MUSIC]